docs: write a better intro to the Tilt API reference (#26)
tilt-dev/api.tilt.dev: docs/index.md

---
title: Tilt API Server Reference
layout: api
---

> 

Reviewer: What does the Tilt API server do? What usecases does it address? Which problems does it solve?

Author: There's a whole section on this?

```
## For Dev Environment Maintainers

This reference site is for users who have already set up Tilt, and are:

- trying to diagnose why Tilt isn't behaving like you expect, or

- writing new templates for dev environments to share across teams, or

- scraping metrics about your dev environment to track internally, or

- contributing to Tilt itself (!)
```

Reviewer: I see.
I got confused, because that section is introduced as "Here are some things that this guide might help with:", so I understood this to mean, this describes the value of this guide, not the Tilt API itself.
Also, this guide starts with who should not be reading it. I think it would be better to start off with why you *should* read on.
I would suggest a one or two sentence top level explanation of the Tilt API before jumping in with the content.
For example:
``` 
The Tilt Server API allows you to drill down into the depths of Tilt, to get at exactly what you need without all the window-dressing. Consume the API to automate setup, scrape metrics and much more.
```

Author: done

## For First-Time Tilt Users

For new users, you want the [Tutorial](https://docs.tilt.dev/tutorial/index.html)
or one of the example projects.

<ul>
  {% for page in site.data.examples %}
     <li><a href="https://docs.tilt.dev/{{page.href | escape}}">{{page.title | escape}}</a></li>
  {% endfor %}
</ul>

For detailed help writing a Tiltfile, you want the [Tiltfile
Reference](https://docs.tilt.dev/api.html).

## For Dev Environment Maintainers

This reference site is for users who have already set up Tilt, and are:

- trying to diagnose why Tilt isn't behaving like you expect, or

- writing new templates for dev environments to share across teams, or

- scraping metrics about your dev environment to track internally, or

- contributing to Tilt itself (!)

## How to Explore the API Server on Your Own

First, start up a Tilt environment:

```
tilt up
```

Then, in a separate terminal, run:

```
tilt api-resources
```

This will print out all the objects that your current environment supports. If
you're familiar with `kubectl`, this may look familiar!  The Tilt CLI is a thin
wrapper around `kubectl` for querying the Tilt API Server. It supports many of
the same verbs and flags.

> 

Reviewer: Are Tilt api-resources custom K8s resources? Does that mean you always have to have a k8s cluster running even if you're using docker-compose?

Author: rewrote the section a bit in a way that might help

Reviewer: I am still not 100% sure
Does this mean, these are not k8s resources and I don't need a k8s cluster, it just uses the same pattern?
You need to spell it out for me :)

Author: ok, i just removed this line, since it seems to be more confusing than helpful

But we'll help you find where you should be.

For new users, you want the [Tutorial](https://docs.tilt.dev/tutorial/index.html)
or one of the example projects.

<ul>
  {% for page in site.data.examples %}
     <li><a href="https://docs.tilt.dev/{{page.href | escape}}">{{page.title | escape}}</a></li>
  {% endfor %}
</ul>

For detailed help writing a Tiltfile, you want the [Tiltfile
Reference](https://docs.tilt.dev/api.html).

## Who This Guide IS For

This reference site is for dev environment maintainers who have already set up Tilt.

Here are some things that this guide might help with:

- trying to diagnose why Tilt isn't behaving like you expect, or

- writing new templates for dev environments to share across teams, or

- scraping metrics about your dev environment to track internally, or

- contributing to Tilt itself (!)

## How to Explore the API Server on Your Own

First, start up a Tilt environment:

```
tilt up
```

Then, in a separate terminal, run:

```
tilt api-resources
```

This will print out all the objects that your current environment supports. If
you're familiar with `kubectl`, this may look familiar!  The Tilt CLI supports many of

> the same verbs and flags as `kubectl`. But it manipulatestypes of objects specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the same verbs and flags as `kubectl`. But it manipulates types of objects specific
```
